packages/cli/README.md, before:

<a href="https://wstd.us/cli-vid">
   <img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/eoyB9DfWdT8/0.jpg" style="width:100%;">
</a>

## Webstudio CLI

The Webstudio CLI helps you to link, sync and build projects from Webstudio Cloud. This README will guide you through the process of setting up a Webstudio project on your local machine and continually sync it with the cloud.

## Prerequisites: Installing Node.js

You need Node.js to use the Webstudio CLI. If Node.js is already installed in your system, you can skip ahead to the section on installing the Webstudio CLI.

To install Node.js using NVM, first install NVM by running:

```bash
curl -o- <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.0/install.sh> | bash
```

Once NVM is installed, you can install Node.js version 18 by running:

```bash
nvm install 18
```

Verify your Node.js installation by checking its version:

```bash
node --version
```

## Installing the Webstudio CLI

To get started with the Webstudio CLI:

1. Download and install the CLI using the following command:

   ```bash
   npm install -g webstudio-cli
   ```

1. Confirm the installation by checking the CLI version:

   ```bash
   webstudio-cli --version
   ```

1. To keep your CLI updated, use the same command used for installation whenever a new release is available.

## Initiating a Webstudio Project

Now, you can run a Webstudio project on your local machine using this command:

```bash
webstudio-cli
```

This will initiate the flow to connect your Webstudio Cloud project and build it in your local computer. The default flow will guide you through the steps. You can also perform all the operations individually using independent commands.

## Commands

Here is the list of independent commands:

- version
- help
- link
- sync
- build

### link

The **`link`** command syncs your local Webstudio project with the project from the cloud. This means that any changes made in the cloud can be synced to the local project, once they are published.

You can link a project from Webstudio Cloud with the following command:

```bash
webstudio-cli link
```

This command will prompt you to paste a link which you can create using the _Share_ option in your project.

Make sure to provide _Build_ access when generating the link in Webstudio Cloud.

### sync

Once the project is linked, use the **`sync`** command to sync it with the cloud:

```bash
webstudio-cli sync
```

Make sure to publish the project in Webstudio Cloud before running the **`sync`** command in your local Webstudio project.

### build

Now, you can build your project with the **`build`** command:

```bash
webstudio-cli build
```

During this phase, the CLI establishes the necessary routes and pages, scaffolding the entire application using the default Remix template. Additionally, all assets, such as images and fonts are downloaded to the **`assets`** folder inside the **`public`** directory.

Once the project is scaffolded, you can run `npm install` and then `npm run dev` to run your app in development mode.

If you want to build a production version of the app, you can run `npm run build`.

## Deployment

Once you've built the project locally, you can use the [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/docs/cli) to deploy your site directly to [Vercel](https://vercel.com):

```bash
vercel deploy
```

Follow the instructions [here](https://vercel.com/docs/cli) to install the `vercel` CLI. We plan to add more deployment targets in future.

## Important Notes

If you use `vercel build` before `vercel deploy`, make sure to clean your `app` folder in the project afterward.

Vercel injects a few [files](https://github.com/vercel/vercel/blob/a8ad176262ef822860ce338927e6f959961d2d32/packages/remix/src/build.ts#L63) to support and deploy Remix using their CLI, but these files are not necessary for your project when you use it locally.

Commit message:

docs: add netlify section for cli readme (#2369)
## Description

Adds description to `netlify` using netlify-cli.

packages/cli/README.md, after:

<a href="https://wstd.us/cli-vid">
   <img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/eoyB9DfWdT8/0.jpg" style="width:100%;">
</a>

## Webstudio CLI

The Webstudio CLI helps you to link, sync and build projects from Webstudio Cloud. This README will guide you through the process of setting up a Webstudio project on your local machine and continually sync it with the cloud.

## Prerequisites: Installing Node.js

You need Node.js to use the Webstudio CLI. If Node.js is already installed in your system, you can skip ahead to the section on installing the Webstudio CLI.

To install Node.js using NVM, first install NVM by running:

```bash
curl -o- <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.0/install.sh> | bash
```

Once NVM is installed, you can install Node.js version 18 by running:

```bash
nvm install 18
```

Verify your Node.js installation by checking its version:

```bash
node --version
```

## Installing the Webstudio CLI

To get started with the Webstudio CLI:

1. Download and install the CLI using the following command:

   ```bash
   npm install -g webstudio-cli
   ```

1. Confirm the installation by checking the CLI version:

   ```bash
   webstudio-cli --version
   ```

1. To keep your CLI updated, use the same command used for installation whenever a new release is available.

## Initiating a Webstudio Project

Now, you can run a Webstudio project on your local machine using this command:

```bash
webstudio-cli
```

This will initiate the flow to connect your Webstudio Cloud project and build it in your local computer. The default flow will guide you through the steps. You can also perform all the operations individually using independent commands.

## Commands

Here is the list of independent commands:

- version
- help
- link
- sync
- build

### link

The **`link`** command syncs your local Webstudio project with the project from the cloud. This means that any changes made in the cloud can be synced to the local project, once they are published.

You can link a project from Webstudio Cloud with the following command:

```bash
webstudio-cli link
```

This command will prompt you to paste a link which you can create using the _Share_ option in your project.

Make sure to provide _Build_ access when generating the link in Webstudio Cloud.

### sync

Once the project is linked, use the **`sync`** command to sync it with the cloud:

```bash
webstudio-cli sync
```

Make sure to publish the project in Webstudio Cloud before running the **`sync`** command in your local Webstudio project.

### build

Now, you can build your project with the **`build`** command:

```bash
webstudio-cli build
```

During this phase, the CLI establishes the necessary routes and pages, scaffolding the entire application using the default Remix template. Additionally, all assets, such as images and fonts are downloaded to the **`assets`** folder inside the **`public`** directory.

Once the project is scaffolded, you can run `npm install` and then `npm run dev` to run your app in development mode.

If you want to build a production version of the app, you can run `npm run build`.

## Deployment

### Vercel

Once you've built the project locally, you can use the [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/docs/cli) to deploy your site directly to [Vercel](https://vercel.com):

```bash
vercel deploy
```

Follow the instructions [here](https://vercel.com/docs/cli) to install the `vercel` CLI. We plan to add more deployment targets in future.

### Netlify

If you want to deploy to netlify, you can use [Netlify CLI](https://docs.netlify.com/cli/get-started/) to deploy your site directly to [Netlify](https://netlify.com/):

```bash
netlify deploy
```

You can configure the project to support netlify serverless/edge-functions respectively, as deployment target at the time of initially setting up your project. Please check the [initiating-a-webstudio-project](#initiating-a-webstudio-project) section.

You can manually change it using the `build` command. For serverless functions:

```bash
webstudio-cli build --template netlify-functions
```

and for edge functions:

```bash
webstudio-cli build --template netlify-edge-functions
```

## Important Notes

If you use `vercel build` before `vercel deploy`, make sure to clean your `app` folder in the project afterward.

Vercel injects a few [files](https://github.com/vercel/vercel/blob/a8ad176262ef822860ce338927e6f959961d2d32/packages/remix/src/build.ts#L63) to support and deploy Remix using their CLI, but these files are not necessary for your project when you use it locally.
